---
title: Making a Quiz on App Lab
toc: true
comments: true
layout: post
description: Read about my experience making my own quiz in App Lab on Code.org.
permalink: /app_lab_quiz/markdown
image: /images/spidermanpic.jpg
categories: [week 3]
---

## The Design Process

1. ### Picking a theme
    I first picked out a theme I was interested in to create my quiz. I chose Spiderman as my theme.
2. ### Writing my Questions
    My three questions on my app will be: **How many Spidermans are there in the cinematic universe?**, **Who is the best Spiderman?**, and **Which Spiderman said "I love you" to the other Spidermans in the Spiderman movie, *No Way Home*?**
3. ### Designing my Quiz.
    I decided that there will be a home page with an image of Tom Holland as spiderman. When you click a "start" button, the app will direct you to the first question and page. When you answer it will then direct you to the next question and so on. At the very end, the quiz will have four pages: a 100% success page, a 66% success page, a 33% success page, and a 0% success page. The user will be directed to whatever page they scored on the quiz.
4. ### Executing my Quiz
    I first developed by quiz by making all the different screens I would need and naming them. I then started uploading images and adding text, buttons, and titles. After designing most of my screens, I started experimenting with the code. I added console logs to let the programer know what is happening during the quiz. After simply getting each question after another and using on events to get answers, I started getting fancier. **I decided to use an if/else statement for my first question with an imput from the user. If the user gets the question right (checked with a variable), then the quiz will direct to the next quesiton. If they get it wrong, it goes to a screen saying they are incorrect. I also decided to keep track of the user's score using another variable and adding one to the score everytime the user gets an answer correct. The score shows at the very end. My final addition was setting a timeout of two seconds after a user answers a question. The screen shows a message to the user for two seconds before moving on to the next page.** 


## Here's What Worked
- I learned a great deal about **Javascript** for the first time. I liked using the App Lab because I could see the code also in text form but was able to easily use the boxes.
- I figured out how to use different features on the App Lab such as timeouts, on events, if/else functions, and defining variables in Javascript.
- My quiz ended up working well and the score at the end is the correct ouput (I had to problem solve this).

## Improvement for Next Time
- My on events and code are a bit repetitive. I would try and figure out how to simplify my code maybe by defining functions to use less on events. If I use the same formatting on every screen, I may be able to simplify my code even further. 
- I would like to experiment with the other functions in App Lab. There are a lot of features I haven't had the chance to explore yet.
- I started off by using text input when adding my titles and questions. I then learned I should use text area instead. But once I was mostly done designing my quiz, I learned that I should be using **text labels** and not text areas so that the user is unable to edit the text.